Bees look like fuzzy wasps. There are over sixteen thousand bee species.
Wasp						
Bee

You can find them anywhere there are flowers. They live in deserts, prairies, forests, even the tundra!

Bees eat pollen and drink nectar. Their hair helps them to collect pollen. They drink nectar with their tongues.

Some bees have very long tongues, or glossa. They use it to reach the nectar in long flowers.
Tongue

Other bees have very short tongues. They get nectar from plants with short flowers.
Tongue

Bees have a special part on their legs where they keep the pollen they collect. These are their pollen baskets, or corbiculae.
Pollen Baskets

Bees have very good sight and use the sun to find their way home. They bring back pollen and nectar to feed the young in the nest.

They have three special eyes on top of their heads that help them see. These are the ocelli.

Most bees make their nests in the ground or in sticks. Others build nests in holes and create special places called brood cells where the baby bees develop.
Bee nest

Honey bees build hives. They have special parts in their heads that help them make wax. They use the wax to build cells for their young and to store honey. 
Bee hive

Most bees live alone. They build a nest and feed the young on their own. When they grow up, they leave the nest to start a new hive.

Some bees, like honey bees and bumble bees are social. They have a queen and workers inside the hive.
Worker     
Queen

 Queens are much bigger than workers, and can live much longer – sometimes up to twelve years!

 The queen lays the eggs inside the hive. Once she starts laying eggs, she never leaves the hive again.
Eggs

 The workers do not lay eggs. Instead, they bring back pollen and nectar to feed their brothers and sisters. The workers are all female.

When honey bee workers find a good food source, they come back to the nest and dance. This dance tells the other workers where they can find good food.

Honey bee workers bring back nectar in a special part of their throat called the crop. They use the nectar to make honey in the hive.

 Bees collect pollen and move some of it from flower to flower. This is called pollination. Flowers need pollen from other flowers to make fruits.
Pollination

 We need bees to grow many fruits and vegetables like blueberries, watermelon, apples, coffee, pumpkins, and sunflowers.

 You can find many different types of bees in your own backyard.

 Now, many bees are getting sick and disappearing. You can help the bees by growing flowers in your gardens.
