: A little over 500 years ago, the world was a very different place. 
Map of the World before 1492
Actual World map
: No ships or planes crossed the Atlantic Ocean between Europe and America. In fact, people in Europe did not even know there was such a place. 
Europe		Atlantic Ocean
: Christopher Columbus changed all that. By sailing across the Atlantic into the unknown, he brought about a new era in history.
: Columbus was born in Genoa, Italy in 1451. He was a sailor. He travelled all over Europe and West Africa.
Christopher Columbus
:  A war on the route from Europe to Asia made travel by land very dangerous. Columbus and others began to look for another way to get there by sea.
:   Most Europeans at the time thought the Earth was flat.  Columbus and other educated Europeans knew the Earth was round. He proposed to reach Asia sailing west, across the Atlantic, rather than traveling east.
Europe	Asia		Atlantic Ocean	Sea route	Land route
Traditional trade routes
:  He proposed to reach Asia sailing west across the Atlantic, rather than traveling east. 
Asia

: It was a bold and dangerous idea. Queen Isabella and King Ferdinand of what later became Spain agreed to pay for Columbus' expedition.
:  In August, 1492, Columbus and his crew left Spain in three ships  the Niña, the Pinta, and the Santa Maria. The ships were very small  only a little big bigger than a school bus.
: Crossing the Atlantic was long and hard. The sailors worried they would sink in the storms. After sailing for weeks, some of the sailors wanted to return. Columbus tried to keep them going.
:  Finally, they sighted land in what is today the Bahamas, on October 12th, 1492. The islands were beautiful. The Arawaks greeted Columbus and his crew.
North America	Europe	Africa		Bahamas	Spain
: Columbus thought he had reached Asia. In fact, he had reached a place he did not know existed  America. 
Asia	    America
: Though he was brave, Columbus was also greedy. He called the he Arawaks “Indians.” He wanted their gold and silver. He cruelly enslaved them as gifts for the King and Queen of Spain.
:   He sailed back to Spain with the news that land existed far out across the Atlantic.
North America	Europe	Africa		Dominican republic    	Spain
: Soon, more European adventurers and explorers were crossing the Atlantic to what came to be called “the New World”.
:    Columbus received credit for “discovering” America; but other people had been there before him. The Indians had lived there for thousands of years.
American Indians
:  The vikings had been to North America years before. Still, it was not until Columbus that people regularly travelled across the Atlantic Ocean.
The Vikings
:  Columbus acted as Governor for Spain’s colony on the island of Hispaniola. He was brutal to both the Indians and the Spanish settlers. Soon, he was arrested and sent back to Spain. He was freed but not allowed to be governor again. 
: Columbus died in 1506 in the Spanish city of Valladolid.
 Columbus was a brave man who changed the world. Today we have mixed views of Columbus. Some praise his skills as an explorer; others emphasize his cruelty in the New World.
Everyone agrees, however, that the world was never the same after “Columbus sailed the ocean blue.”