. Fifty years ago, the United States was a different place. African Americans weren't allowed to vote, to go to good schools, to get decent jobs, or to be treated the same way as white people. 

. Martin Luther King, Jr. tried to change this. He was a preacher and a leader of the Civil Rights Movement. He worked and fought so that everyone in the United States would be treated fairly.
Martin Luther King, Jr.

. Martin was born on January 15, 1929, in Atlanta, Georgia. He was a good student. He became a preacher like his father.

. Martin took a job as a pastor in Alabama, a state that was segregated. Black people could not use the same schools as white people. There were even separate water fountains for each race.   

. On buses, black people had to ride in the back. Facilities were much better for white people.

. Many Americans thought this was unfair. Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat at the front of a city bus. She was arrested in 1955 for this.
Rosa Parks

. Martin thought Rosa was right. Black people should be able to sit anywhere they wanted.
The Montgomery City bus that Rosa Parks was arrested on.

. He and other African-Americans in Montgomery organized a boycott of the city's buses. This meant they would not use the buses until they let everyone have equal rights.

. The boycott made many white people angry at Martin. They tried to hurt him. They even bombed his house. 
A motel where King was staying, bombed in 1963. 

. But Martin, Rosa and the rest of the black people in Alabama would not give up. A judge said that buses in Montgomery could no longer be segregated.

. Even though angry white people tried to hurt him, Martin did not believe in violence. He used non-violent means. He refused to obey laws that were unjust. As a result, he was often arrested.

. In 1963, Martin led a huge March on Washington, where hundreds of thousands of people showed they believed in civil rights and equality. Martin gave a famous speech.

. In it, Dr. King proclaimed told America his dream – that all people would be treated equally.

. The March on Washington got the country's attention. Soon, Congress and the President made segregation illegal. They guaranteed every American's right to vote, no matter the color their skin.
President Johnson signing the Civil Rights.

. But Dr. King was not done fighting for justice. He spoke out for peace, urging an end to the Vietnam War. He also spoke out for the poor. He said everyone in America deserved a decent job and a decent wage.

. Even though he used non-violence, Martin's enemies did not. On April 4, 1968, an angry white man shot and killed Dr. King in Memphis, Tennessee. The whole nation was shocked and saddened. 
Martin Luther King´s tomb. 

. But Martin Luther King, Jr.'s legacy lived on and grew greater after his death. His birthday, January 15th, became a national holiday to remember his struggle. 

. If King were still alive today, we can be sure that he would still be fighting for justice. He would see too many hungry people and too much violence in today's world. 