Once there was a small village in Hungary. Most of the shops in the village were closed.

Since the war, the villagers were not very friendly. They ate by themselves at night. They didn't welcome strangers.

One day two travelers came into the village. They passed an old woman on the stone path.

“My friend,” said the first man, “Look at that fine stone! Why, that would make a fine stone soup!”

The old woman didn’t usually talk to strangers. But she was so curious she just had to. “Stone soup? Whatever is stone soup?”“The tastiest soup you’ll ever taste,” said the first man. “But sadly, we have no pot to cook it.”

The old lady thought for a moment.  “I'll lend you a pot,” she said, “If you'll give me a taste.”“Of course!” said the men together. The woman brought the pot with water.

. Soon the stone was boiling as the three watched.“Yum, yum. Stone soup!” said the second man. Just then the butcher was walking past. He didn’t like talking to strangers, but he just had to ask.

. “Stone soup? What’s that?”“The tastiest soup ever,” said the first man. “But we don’t have any meat. With a little meat, it’s even better.”

. The butcher thought for a second. “Hold on,” he said. He walked to his shop and came back with some ribs. “I’ll take a bowl when it’s finished,” he said.

. The stone and meat were boiling as the four watched.

. Now two boys came by. When they saw all the people around the pot, they asked “What are you making?” “Stone soup!” said the old woman now.“Yes,” said the first man. “Too bad we don’t have beans. Stone soup is even better with beans.”

 The two boys looked at each other and then started to whisper. They walked to their house and soon returned with a cup full of beans.

 Soon the priest came by, and he brought some potatoes. Then a lovely young woman, who added some cabbage. One by one everyone in the villagers added an ingredient. 

 At last the stone soup was ready!

 The old lady went to her kitchen and brought bowls and spoons. Now the whole village sat down on the grass to try it. 

 They started to talk and smile. The soup was warm and delicious. 

 When all the soup had been served, the stone was still at the bottom of the pot. Everyone said they were too full to eat it!

The travelers washed the pot in the river, returned it to the old woman, and went on their way.

As for the villagers, they are still all friends to this day. And they still get together to make stone soup!
